# zgit-cli

`zgit-cli` is a command-line interface tool to manage Git repositories. This tool emulates a stacked diff workflow, to be used on companies that do not have adopted it. So, you, as a developer can emulate it by using git branches.

## What are Stacked Diffs?
Stacked diffs, also known as stacked changes or stacked pull requests, involve stacking a series of small, dependent changes atop one another. This method allows developers to review and merge small changes independently, making the code review process more efficient and manageable.

### Benefits of Stacked Diffs
1. `Improved Focus`: Reviewers can focus on small parts of the codebase, making it easier to spot issues and understand the context of changes.
2. `Faster Feedback Loop`: Smaller changes can be reviewed and merged more quickly, leading to a faster feedback loop between developers and reviewers.
3. `Easier Management`: Dependencies between changes are explicitly defined, making it easier to manage and track the progression of features or fixes.
4. `Reduced Merge Conflict`:: By frequently merging small changes, the likelihood of significant merge conflicts is reduced.
5. `Incremental Testin`:: Each change can be tested independently, which helps in identifying the cause of regressions or bugs.

### Further Reading
- [Graphite: Stacked Diffs](https://graphite.dev/)
- [StGit: Stacked Git](https://stacked-git.github.io/)
- [Stacked Diffs vs. Pull Requests](https://github.com/shish/stack-guide)

## Features

- **CLI Interface:** Easy to use command-line commands to manage your Git workflows.
- **Bash Completion:** Includes bash completion for improved command line experience.
- **Testing:** Configured with Jest for comprehensive testing.
- **Emulated Stacked Diffs**: Supports managing a series of small, dependent changes to improve code review and merging processes.

## Installation

To install `zgit-cli`, you need to have Node.js and npm installed. Then, you can install it globally using:

```bash
npm install -g zgit-cli
```

## Usage

Once installed, you can use `zgit-cli` commands in your terminal. Here are some examples:

```bash
zgit-cli back     # Switches to the previous sibling branch if available.
zgit-cli branch   # Handles feature branch creation and switching.
zgit-cli clean    # Fetches and prunes remote-tracking branches, then deletes local branches that have been pruned.
zgit-cli commit   # If no commit message is provided, the last commit will be amended.
zgit-cli down     # Switches to the child branch if there is only one, or prompts for which child branch to switch to if there are multiple.
zgit-cli feature  # Lists feature branches and allows navigation through them.
zgit-cli next     # Switches to the next sibling branch if available.
zgit-cli sync     # Rebases the parent branches on top of the current branch.
zgit-cli up       # Switches to the first sibling branch found in the list generated by 'git branch'.

```

For a complete list of commands and their usage, you can use the help command:

```bash
zgit --help
```

## Development

To contribute to `zgit-cli`, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/tigredonorte/zgit-cli.git
   ```
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
3. Run tests:
   ```bash
   npm test
   ```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository and submit a pull request for review.